---
title: 'About Homelab'
description: 'About Homelab'
pubDate: 'July 28 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/homelab.jpeg'
---

Image source: https://arslan.io/2024/09/10/my-homelab-setup/.

No, I'm not here to tell you how to homelab. There's an entire subreddit called r/homelab dedicated to that topic. If you wanna see people crashing out over setting up their homelab or learn the myriad of server hardwares and FOSS, head over there.

But, if you're curious how I learned about homelab-related stuff without actually doing homelab, then keep scrolling.

When I was still in Vietnam, I was under zero condition to do homelab. Budget was the main issue. My family income just didn't allow that kind of hobby. And even if budget wasn't the issue, supply would still be one. It's not like you could find secondhanded servers and hardwares in my place anyway. And I really didn't have a reason to get into Linux either. I thought Windows was good enough. *Naive, I know*. But that was how I was before the age of 18. Plus, my school work quite heavily relied on the Office Suite. I do have a friend who did Linux at the time, and getting those Office apps to work properly on Linux was nothing short of a nightmare. I've seen him crashed out more than I could count. To make things worse for his sanity, he's currently studying at medical school. A real prestigious one at that (at least in Vietnam).

When I was 18, I went to Canada and enrolled in the University of Waterloo. My first proper exposure to Linux that wasn't just through memes was the course CS 136L. You learn the basics of Linux in that course. You also do some development work on the Linux student server. It was then that I realized, "damn this shit is infinitely better than Windows for developer work". So, I got hooked up with Linux.

Four months after my first contact with Linux, I got my first co-op job. It was Instructional Support Assistant (ISA) for CS 135, a first-year CS course. On one hand, ISA is just a fancy term for TA, and you're there to support students with course materials, assignments and exams. On the other hand, you're solely responsible for maintaining the entire backend system that runs the course, because none of the profs cared enough. So, there was me, knowing only the basics of Linux, responsible for the entire system of the course, **from day 1 of the work term**. Thankfully, I always learn damn quickly, so I ended up breaking less things than I should have. And I got even more interested in working with servers and systems.

After that co-op term, I decided to apply to the Terminal Committee (Termcom) of the Computer Science Club (CSC) to gain more experience working with systems. I got in, and I'm still in the team as of this blog. It was a bit overwhelming at first, with the vast number of services that Termcom (and effectively CSC) provides. Especially when I was still a beginner at those kinds of things. But I managed to learn them anyway. Sometimes I got to maintain some current stuff, sometimes I got to set up some new stuff. I learned even more by looking at my sysadmins crashing out at 2AM everyday. Sometimes, other team members suggested some cool stuff, and I learned from them as well. Funny enough, our Discord channel has become my valuable source of knowledge.

I also kept returning as a part-time ISA for CS 135. I won't deny that I returned for easy money, but I also got to resume my job of maintaining the course systems. Every now and then, I also crashed out on the systems. Still somewhat more comfortable than working in Termcom though; CSC offers so many services on such high caliber that even our sysadmins, who know 20 times more stuff than I do, still crash out on a daily basis.

"Hang on. You should have had enough money from your co-op jobs to do homelab at this point right?"

Yes. But here comes the next crucial issue.

I'm an international student. I do *not* have a long-term place to stay at. If I were to do homelab, that would mean moving all my homelab shit whenever I change residence. **Not. Cool. At. All.**

So, until I graduate and get myself a long-term residence, I will still do homelab without actually doing homelab.

I can just spin up VMs and play around with stuff using them for now.

It's not the best, but you know, it works.

I also prefer a Macbook over Linux Desktop. Though, NixOS is pretty interesting in its own way.

Also, did you know that you could have your own Macbook for 4 months as an ISA?