---
title: 'About Crush'
description: 'About Crush'
pubDate: 'July 26 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/crush.webp'
---

This is a story of my first and last crush (as of now).

In my place, elementary goes from grade 1 to 5, junior high 6 to 9, and high school 10 to 12.

That gave me 4 years of junior high.

My junior high school was rather prestigious; there was a damn hard entrance exam you need to take to be able to enroll in the school. How I managed to get past that as a 10-year-old kid still spoiled rotten *royally* by his mom is honestly beyond me.

Ever since birth, I was a very introverted child. I was quiet, I didn't want to engage in anything, I didn't want to bother anyone, and I preferred to live in my own world. Unfortunately, elementary school was hectic for me. Almost everyone around me was hyperactive and constantly got me into trouble just because I was their classmate. I didn't enjoy that. *Not even one bit*.

So, naive 10-year-old me, after enrolling in junior high, thought to myself that since I was in a prestigious school, surely everyone else would just ignore this commonplace kid who had nothing special in him. Surely I would have 4 years of peace and maybe witness some interesting stuff for myself. Surely I would not get dragged into any drama that I absolutely did not ask for.

None of that was the case. **None of it**.

If anything, it somehow managed to be 10 times worse than elementary because now these kids around me knew *way too much stuff*. And they were even more hyperactive than I could bear. Scolding and punishment from our homeroom teacher was a weekly thing, **literally**. I really wish I'm exaggerating, but unfortunately I'm not. I didn't do shit. Yet I still had to listen to all those scoldings. Sometimes I even got punished along with the conspirators just because I was their classmate. 

As a result, my patience grew wearily thin. By the time I was in grade 8, it had become so thin I barely had a single ounce of faith in my class.

Then, there was this girl.

She was my classmate. We worked together on a couple of group presentations, but I never really paid attention to her.

Then my best friend, one of the very few classmates I didn't have animosity against, had a crush on her.

And it wasn't like he told me anyway. I just noticed changes in his behavior whenver he encountered her. I got curious, jokingly said "you act like you have a crush on her", and he admitted to my non-serious joke.

I was like "Oh... The heck am I supposed to do with this information then?!"

He asked me to keep this a secret. Yeah no shit mate, I had already suffered enough from our classmates thank you very much.

Then he asked me to help him get her attention. Being the good friend that I was, I agreed to the request.

And so began my days as a wingman who had absolutely zero idea how to be a wingman.

Somehow, I still managed to figure that I should get closer to the girl to learn more about her. Then I could begin to ponder about a plan to help my friend get her attention.

So, I did just that. 

I tried to be more friendly towards her, despite having severe trust issues in my classmates in general.

I tried to be more of a decent person whenever I was within her vicinity, despite having always been a complete shut in that wanted nothing to do with the rest of the world.

I tried to actively engage in conversations with her, despite a complete lack of conversational skills.

I tried to learn more stuff and help her out whenever we teamed up for group presentations, despite having never given a shit about learning anything or helping anyone.

I tried to listen to whatever she had to say, despite having never cared enough to listen to anyone.

I did all of those to gather important information so that I could share with my friend, so that I could come up with a plan.

And I really did have a plan. Not just *a* plan, but plans for different occassions.

I told him what he should do and what he should not. I told him the right time to get her attention.

Things worked out really well. He managed to become a closer friend of hers. He was able to spend more time with her.

I thought to myself, "Good job Di, you finally managed to not screw something up."

But then, my memories caught up to me. My latent emotions, which I had always dismissed as nothing more than random stupid thoughts, finally caught up to me.

Whenever I listened to her stories, she always gave me such a bright smile.

Whenever I said something to her, she always gave me such warm eyes.

Whenever I worked with her, she always gave me so much consideration, so much kindness.

Occassionally, I made some oopsies during our teamwork, and she would be upset with me. But she wasn't angry with me. She would still help me to clean up the mess I created, as long as I took the main responsbility for that. She was that kind.

It just felt so... natural to be around her. To be right beside her.

With her, I could just be myself, and she wouldn't judge me or make fun of me.

With her, I could smile once more, even laugh occassionally.

With her, I could just enjoy my life as it was.

I finally came to a realization.

I liked her. Maybe I even loved her.

Immediately, I brushed off those thoughts. I didn't want to mess anything up anymore. One confession was all it took for me to lose my best friend and the girl I liked at the same time.

And yet, those feelings never went away. If anything, it only grew stronger every time I encountered her.

I even thought to myself, "I really want to stay by her side forever".

At some point, my best friend lost interest in her. I never really asked him why. He would have just brushed off my question anyway.

And so I thought, perhaps now I could step up.

But of course, I still hesitated. Even with my best friend out of the equation, there was still that possibility of ruining the friendship between her and me.

Then, one day, I saw her conversing with her best friend.

I saw her smiling so much more brightly than I have ever known.

I saw her eyes so much warmer than I have ever known.

I saw her face filled so much more kindness than I have ever known.

It was then, that I came to realize the harsh truth.

I had always received from her.

I had never once gave her anything.

This relationship of ours, was never meant to last, even from the beginning.

Because I could never see myself as someone capable of making her happy.

All I saw in myself, was a spoiled kid, emotionally hurt, always yearning for someone else's affection.

No, I do not have the right to stand beside her.

As long as I remain the broken person that I have always been, I will never have that right.

So, the very least thing I could do, was to keep things unchanged.

And I did just that. I withheld my feelings for her until we graduated.

Even when the atmosphere of the graduation day kept saying "Do it or you will regret it", I never once confessed my feelings for her.

We went separate ways after junior high. Though, I could still see how she's doing on Facebook.

Now, she's happy with her life. She has a boyfriend now. One she can always rely on.

I can see it. The happiness in her eyes. The happiness that I never saw before.

Every now and then, a voice in my head asks me:

"Do you regret your choice back then?"

Honestly? I don't. I never once regretted my choice. And I will never regret my choice.

Not because I wish for her happiness. I do, but that is not the reason.

It's because I did the right thing.

There were a lot of times, after junior high, when I experienced emotional breakdowns, due to high stress, extremely low self-esteem, and a lot of self-loathing.

I'm just glad, I didn't have to bother anyone with that. Not when I care for those people.

My family and friends don't deserve to be stuck with a broken person, not when they have always went out of their way to help me.

They deserve better.

And that is what I want for them.