---
title: 'About Music'
description: 'About Music'
pubDate: 'November 05 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/music.jpg'
---

Image source: https://www.pixiv.net/en/artworks/60582383.

For the longest time I could recall, I've always had a certain fascination with music. Not that I know music theory, mind you. Music was somehow a compulsory course during my elementary and junior high years, and I always bombed the heck out of it, either because my music theory sucked or my singing sucked or both. So no, I'm very much **not** a music professional.

My earliest memory of fondness for music started in grade 6. Back then, social media was a relatively new thing in my place, and I didn't know social media was a thing until I was in grade 9, ready to leave junior high and enter high school. So unlike my classmates (don't ask me why I prefer that over friends), I didn't spend every night digging through every nook and cranny of the social media world. I had a radio in my room, and there was this channel that would play music all the time. Sadly I forgot the frequency, and I'm not sure if the channel still exists after all these years anyway. School work was always boring as hell, so I always tuned in to that radio channel to listen to some music until I got sleepy. It was a really nice experience every night. The hosts of that channel didn't just put on a playlist and call it a day. Instead, there was this thing where you could send requests to the channel, asking for a specific song to be played and a specific message to be addressed to someone dear to you. As such, all the songs I got to listen to were very soothing, very emotional and very intimate. Overall, they were just really nice to listen to. Later, I did find out that those songs were in fact hit songs at the time I listened to them. So yeah, they were good songs to me before I knew they were good songs. And allow me to make one thing very damn clear. A hit song **does not** always mean a good song. And vice versa.

In fact, those songs were what kept my sanity from going into the abyss thanks to the horrors and shenanigans that my classmates always pulled off on a fricking daily basis. I don't know if an 11-year-old kid was supposed to be like that, but it did not make me feel comfortable, at all. I didn't have a smartphone back then, only a small Nokia brick phone. And I needed a way to listen to those lovely songs while at school, or else I would snap from all the shit I had to deal with. My smart ass somehow managed to realize that I could connect my phone to my laptop, download the songs to my laptop, and copy them over to my phone. And I did just that. It ain't much, but it's honest work. I also definitely did not download the songs from YouTube the *right* way, but screw YouTube.

At that point, YouTube was only as good as a music library to me. Somewhere in the middle of grade 8, my friends introduced me to a bunch of Nintendo games, namely *Super Mario Odyssey* and *Splatoon 2*. They showed me some YouTube videos and the playthroughs looked interesting enough that I started to use YouTube as it was meant to be used. You might recall from another post where I said grade 9 sucked. Well, grade 8 also sucked at that point. So naturally, I got addicted to watching game playthroughs on YouTube. And naturally, the music in those two games was so good that I downloaded a bunch more soundtracks to my phone. I got especially hooked up with *Splatoon 2* songs, despite them being sung in a completely made up language. But hey, the melody's there, and it's fricking amazing. It didn't take me long to realize that there were other Nintendo games besides *Super Mario Odyssey* and *Splatoon 2*. So naturally, my music library exploded in size. That went on for the rest of junior high. Somehow I got into high school.

In addition to video game music, I became a full-time weeb in grade 9. The idiots known as my classmates completely ruined my first impression of *Sword Art Online* when they decided to do a watch party at the end of grade 6. But I watched the series again and it was fricking amazing. And naturally, I got addicted to the soundtracks and my phone had less storage. Then I watched *Steins Gate*, got haunted by its story, watched *Steins Gate 0*, got haunted even more, watched *Steins Gate: Load Region of Deja Vu*, "dear lord this is the best love story ever". And naturally, all the OPs, EDs and soundtracks for emotional scenes from the series made their way into my phone. Then I watched *Nanatsu no Taizai* and some 10 more soundtracks made their way into phone. I also watched *Kimetsu no Yaiba* and *Attack on Titan*, and my poor phone storage was on life support. It was then that I decided to get a new phone. A smartphone this time.

Junior high concluded and high school began. For so much hard work in all my junior high years, I ditched everything in high school and only did the bare minimum to not drop out of high school. Somehow I was still there on the top 10 leaderboard of the class. I don't get it. Anyway, I started getting into the habit of watching Hollywood movies from definitely not legal websites. I didn't have the budget for Netflix ok? I started out with Christopher Nolan's movies because his movies were making all the rage at that time. I watched *Inception* and got confused by the mechanics of the dream world. But Hans Zimmer's composition of *Time* made its way to my phone. I watched *Interstellar* and got confused by the ending. But Hans Zimmer's composition of *No Time for Caution* made its way to my phone. I watched *The Dark Knight* trilogy and I thought it was straightforward, only for me to later realize it was a whole lot deeper than just a superhero trilogy. But Hans Zimmer's composition of *Like A Dog Chasing Cars* made its way to my phone. I watched a bunch of other good Hollywood movies and no soundtracks made its way to my phone. Later, I realized Hans Zimmer composed the soundtracks that have always hooked me up ever since the first time I watched the *Pirates of the Caribbean* movies in Disney Channel. Hans Zimmer is a goated composer.

Grade 11 sucked even more than grade 10 because some of our teachers were bloody relentless on us students. My friend Newbie introduced me to *Touhou Project*. My music library tripled in size before I even played any of the games. ZUN is a goated composer. Music fanworks based on official *Touhou Project* soundtracks were also very amazing. We all know and love *Bad Apple*, right?

First year of university, I learned about *Madoka Magica* and the rest is history. Naturally, my music library got much bigger. But that wasn't all. I started to look beyond the soundtracks and look into the composer behind the soundtracks. For *Madoka Magica*, it was Kajiura Yuki. I was absolutely mesmerized and haunted by her compositions for *Madoka Magica*, so I decided to see if she had worked in any other anime. You can probably imagine my surprise when I learned that it was her who composed the soundtracks of *Sword Art Online*. Wait, how the heck did we get from heroic sword duels to a story of despair, hope and love again? You can also imagine my surprise when I further learned that she composed the soundtracks for *Kimetsu no Yaiba*. How exactly did we get from intense, emotional combat scenes between demon slayers and demons to a story of despair, hope and love again? But yeah, despite her signature use of vocals in her compositions, Kajiura Yuki has a rather wide range for what she could cook.

At some point, I continued to learn that Kajiura Yuki was the composer for the anime adaptations of *Fate/stay night: Unlimited Blade Works*, which spanned 2 seasons, and *Fate/stay night: Heaven's Feel*, which spanned 3 movies. I watched the animes and got addicted to them soundtracks again. Kajiura-sama is a goated composer.

I also realized that Sawano Hiroyuki was the composer for both *Nanatsu no Taizai* and *Attack on Titan*. Turns out he had an even bigger track record of big shot animes that I haven't bothered to watch yet. He was also known for having a peculiar convention of naming his soundtracks. And by peculiar convention I mean no convention at all. On the other hand, Kajiura-sama almost always never capitalized the first letter in the soundtrack titles. *Madoka Magica* is an exception, but then she decided to use Latin instead. I digged deep enough in that dead tongue to know that it wasn't a good idea to dig deep into a dead tongue. Anyways, Sawano Hiroyuki is also goated.

Music has a rather special place in my heart. Music conveys emotions, and if you use music to its fullest potential, it can be the most powerful tool you could have ever imagined. Each class of music I mentioned above made use of music in very different ways, but there's one thing in common: they all succeeded in drawing out the raw emotions inside each and every one of us. As listeners, we resonate with the music on a subconscious level.

Those pop songs I listened to when I was a young kid, they employed rather simple chord progression, because the focus was on the lyrics, which were beautifully written and sung. I missed the time when pop song lyrics actually carried deep meanings in them, and the singers who delivered those words had just the right voice to do so.

Hans Zimmer has a very particular way of composing soundtracks for Nolan's movies. You see, Nolan's movies, while employing all sorts of brain-hacking concepts and logics in the story, aren't really that complicated in their essence. Nolan has a fascination with metaphysical concepts. He starts with a basic aspect about what it means to be a human being, and develops a story around that aspect. So, you're not watching a brain-hacking movie so much as you're watching a movie exploring an aspect of being a human. *The Dark Knight* trilogy wasn't really a superhero trilogy, it was about a man learning to move past his worst nightmares. *Inception* wasn't really about dream heists and the dream world, it was about being trapped between dream and reality, and learning to move on from dream and embrace reality. *Interstellar* wasn't really about the vastness and the dangers of the universe, it was about love through endurance. *Tenet* wasn't really about mind-boggling time-travelling stuff, it was about embracing fate as it is. *Oppenheimer* wasn't really about the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer, it was about keeping our own humanity and morality. Nolan's movies are grounded in the most raw forms of human emotions, and Hans Zimmer understood that, and was capable of working with those raw emotions. Zimmer never got to see the movie before he composed the soundtracks, all he got was a synopsis about the essence of the movie from Nolan. From there, he composed a leitmotif. Based on that leitmotif, he composed variants of the leitmotif to suit different scenes. A common thing that movie composers do is score the scene itself. If it's an action scene, they try to score the intense actions. If it's an emotional scene, they try to score the sadness and tears. Maybe the soundtrack is good, maybe it's not, but it never quite stuck to me. On the other hand, Zimmer's strategy was very simple. The people watching the movie, they're seeing the scenes, they already know what emotions are being solicited from the scenes, they don't need to be reminded of the scenes. What they need is to be reminded of why the scene *mattered*. That simple strategy, combined with Zimmer's gifted ability to perfectly convey the desired raw emotions, was what his compositions so memorable, and was what greatly enhanced the movies. If it's a mediocre movie, Zimmer's scores make it a great movie. If it's a Nolan movie, Zimmer's scores further solidify the essence of the movie, which is precisely why you couldn't get Nolan's movie out of your mind even though you understood zero shit on first watchthrough.

I can say the same about video game music. A battle happens, a cutscene happens. I'm playing the game, I'm watching the cutscenes. I already know what immediate emotions to be expected there. What I need is to be reminded of why it matters. But for video games, since you *are* playing the game, you're immersed in it, so the composers can still get away with just scoring the scene instead of scoring the story, and players can still remember the soundtracks very well.

Anime is an interesting field in its own way, mainly because there's the concept of OP (short for opening) and ED (short for ending). Now, any TV show would have those two things, but more than often, they don't give a shit about the OP or ED. But in the world anime, a lot of dedication and hard work is put into making the OP and the ED. As such, there are animes where I got absolutely hooked up with the OPs and EDs, but the soundtracks within the episodes didn't really stick around, and I had to rely on the scenes themselves being absolutely amazing to remember them. And then, there are other cases.

The *Steins Gate* series has always been known for its amazing OPs and EDs, but that wasn't all. The soundtracks within the episodes were also especially memorable, and not just because they perfectly captured the emotions of their corresponding scenes. There wasn't a leitmotif per say in *Steins Gate* soundtracks, but they all conveyed either one of the two essences: what it feels like to face the unknown, and what it feels like to bear the consequences of your actions. You know what core emotions you want to convey, and you just compose.

For Kajiura Yuki, she's similar to Hans Zimmer, in that she always employed a leitmotif that conveyed the most essential emotion of the story. For *Sword Art Online*, *Swordland* portrayed not cool sword duels, but rather Kirito's character. And *Luminous Sword* portrayed not more cool sword duels, but rather Asuna's character. And what do you know, Kirito and Asuna's adventure together is in fact the essence of *Sword Art Online*. For *Kimestu no Yaiba*, it wasn't about Tanjirou's journey to get rid of demons, it was about humanity trying their best to fight against demons and protect lives. For *Fate/stay night*, it wasn't about the Holy Grail War or the mystical natures of it, it was about fighting for what you believe in, even when that belief is flawed. And I don't think I need to say more about *Madoka Magica*. It wasn't about magical girls or being dark and grim to shock viewers. It was about a story of despair, hope, and love. As such, you hear the soundtracks, you see the titles, but you feel all those emotions in their simplest forms. And at least for me, those emotions resonated deeply with me.

I mean, I wrote a whole ass post about *And I'm home* just to demonstrate my point. Go back to the homepage, scroll down and you'll find it.

Quite unfortunately though, my sisters value artstyle and the logic of the story over sounds and emotions. While I'm quite the exact opposite. So we had pretty much opposing views on movies. Not that I didn't enjoy listening to their perspectives. In fact, I always like to listen to their perspectives to learn new things that I might have missed.

My friend Newbie is also a music enthusiast, but he isn't quite on my level, because both he and I collectively agree that I am indeed very cooked.

Just so you know, one of my favorite rituals is spending 3 hours looping *Magia* and another 3 hours looping *And I'm home*. **Non. Stop.**