---
title: 'About Advent of Code 2025'
description: 'About Advent of Code 2025'
pubDate: 'December 13 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/aoc-2025.png'
---

Image source: https://adventofcode.com/.

So uh, I have heard about Advent of Code for a while now. But for some reasons I never bothered with it. Until this year. My friend mentioned about it and I thought "well, if my friend mentioned it, then I might as well check it out". That's how I went through all 12 days of Christmas.

This post is a compilation of random thoughts that came to my mind on each day.

#### 1. Day 1

Simple enough modulo arithmetic. You might wanna start over if you can't figure out how to do this one on your own. Turns out there are always 2 parts for each day, an easy version and a hard version. This feels familiar. Surely I didn't see that from a certain website that starts with *Code* and ends with *forces*.

#### 2. Day 2

I had the thought of using string matching algorithm to figure out invalid IDs for part 2. You know, KMP, Z-function and whatnot. Which would have given me the most efficient solution. But uh, I didn't do so. Instead, I just generated the invalid IDs instead. DSA course definitely did not give me a good time with string matching. Not because the questions were hard, but because the questions were hard for no goddamn good reasons. I also hated the exams.

#### 3. Day 3

Welcome back monotonic stack. It's been ages since I've last seen you. Back when I was still doing CP in high school, monotonic stack was a funny thing for a not-so-good reason. I was told that if a problem matches this list of problems, then use monotonic stack. I never learned the specific properties of monotonic stack that would have easily told me which problem to use monotonic stack on. Yeah, we need intuition alright.

#### 4. Day 4

BFS is funny. Sometimes you don't realize it's just BFS until you've exhausted every single other option. And then you call yourself an idiot for not seeing the BFS.

#### 5. Day 5

Merging intervals. I didn't have any particular thoughts on this day.

#### 6. Day 6

You have got to be kidding me. Why the hell is parsing a legal question in CP?! My brother in Christ, we're not doing compilers. And even if we are, there ain't no language like that.

#### 7. Day 7

*Tachyon* had me for a moment because of Agnes Tachyon (I'm not into her, my friend is). I didn't see an approach to part 2 until I realized a pretty goddamn obvious thing. The number of possible ~~worldlines~~ timelines ending on the next line depends on the previous line. Dynamic programming for the win, baby.

#### 8. Day 8

I recalled that there was a specific data structure to merge sets. I completely forgot that it was called Disjoint Set Union. I wish my DSA course dived into DSU instead of fricking range queries in high dimensions. 1D range query is interesting for many good reasons, effing nD range query is not unless you're into graphics programming.

#### 9. Day 9

If there's one topic I'd always do my best to avoid in CP, it's geometry. I could never recall the right formula to use. And day 9 part 2 was either geometry solution in 5 seconds or otherwise in eternity. I learned that the hard way.

#### 10. Day 10

This one is funny, and I don't know if it's for a good reason or a bad reason. On one hand, it's BFS over state space, which is straightforward and easy to understand. On the other hand, the most efficient solution is linear programming, i.e. you install SciPy and do a one-liner. What the hell?

#### 11. Day 11

How to count (paths) 101 (with DFS). Your average DSA course most likely tortured you with this. Just make sure you don't do raw recursion. At least it's a DAG. Cycle detection is a nuisance.

#### 12. Day 12

This one is uh, dumb. A proper solution would invole an algorithm for finding an exact cover. The most efficient solution is to count. Is this supposed to be a gimmick of Advent of Code?

#### 13. Final words

Advent of Code is quite fun actually. By the way, seriously? DDoS? On this fun little project? You really don't have anything better to do don't you?