---
title: 'About Pocky'
description: 'About Pocky'
pubDate: 'August 03 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/pocky.jpg'
---

You might have heard about Pocky. It's a Japanese sweet snack food. More specifically, it consists of coated biscuit sticks. The word *Pocky* comes from the onomatopoeic word *pokkiri*, which is how the Japanese describe the sound of the snack being cracked.

The very first variant of Pocky is simple, plain biscuit stick and chocolate coating. But technically speaking, you can have a biscuit stick of any flavor and a coating of any flavor, as long as the combination doesn't get called an abomination. The Pocky in the thumbnail is one that I bought some time ago. The biscuit stick is strawberry and the coating is blueberry. Pretty nice combination, actually.

I first learned about Pocky when I was a little kid, no older than 10 years old. Mom and Dad usually took me with them whenever they went to the supermarket, and like any kid of my age, I had a fondness for snacks. But Pocky was special. It striked a perfect balance, not too salty and not too sweet. And it doesn't make my fingers nasty like virtually every single type of potato chip. And just like that, I got addicted to Pocky. I'm pretty sure I have tried every single flavor there is to Pocky. But new flavors always pop up, so I always have a good excuse to buy more Pocky. For the sake of "trying out".

Five years later, I became a weeb. It was then that I learned about the Pocky Game. Two people, their mouth at each end of the Pocky stick, trying to be the last one to hold on to the biscuit. If it's a party, then there's a winner and there's a loser, and the loser has to do something. If it's a romantic situation, then this is an excuse to engage in a French kiss, intensity may vary from time to time. However, if you ask me, you're not gonna get anything from me. I've never kissed anyone, let alone a French kiss. And even then, I don't want to imagine how a French kiss with Pocky bits in my mouth would feel like. Maybe not too bad, since Pocky is more or less neutral in terms of flavor and smell. I've also never had the (dis)pleasure of witnessing a French kiss. I mean, I'm pretty sure that's *not* something a couple would do in public.

In high school, my friends and I would buy Pocky boxes on Valentine's Day just to have something representative of the day. But hey, it's a great snack, so why not enjoy it? I have also never had the (dis)pleasure of witnessing a Pocky Game between a couple irl. I did mention above that it could be use as a party game, but I swear I've never seen anyone consider Pocky Game for a party game. If anything, it makes for lovely anime fanarts (might turn "weird" at times).

During my very first semester as a college student, I got hooked up with Madoka Magica instead of giving a shit about my final exams. One of the five girls in the series, Sakura Kyouko, is often seen with a Pocky box in her hand and a Pocky stick in her mouth. Life had its ways and I came to adore Kyouko, as well as the other girls. So the image of Pocky is further engraved to my mind.

All in all, Pocky is nice, and any flavor you come across is always a nice one. Unlike potato chips where you have abominations and only the classical flavors are nice.

Go enjoy some Pocky. Maybe don't engage in a Pocky Game, unless you wanna do kinky stuff with your lover.