---
title: 'About Alcohol'
description: 'About Alcohol'
pubDate: 'November 06 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/alcohol.jpg'
---

Image source: https://www.thecrowncellars.com/liquor/remy-martin-vsop-cny-24-snake/8581.

Funny that I'm writing a post about alcohol, despite not enjoying alcohol very much. And for the very wrong reason.

Where I come from, we have a rather strong emphasis on the culture of drinking. In the countrysides, it was a type of liquor distilled from rice, with alcohol content ranging from 40% to 45%. In the cities, it was beer, and I'm talking like at most 5% beer. But regardless of region, us boys are expected by society to be able to drink, and drink heavily at that, as soon as we became men. I moved to Canada right when I hit 18 so uhh no such issue for me. But my friends still have to deal with that, especially if they have a lot of relatives from the previous generation. My parents never encouraged me to participate in alcoholic beverages anyway, if not outright banned me from doing so, so I didn't get my first exposure to alcohol until I was 18.

My first memory of seeing someone drinking was from my relatives when I was in elementary school. Their red faces always put me off for some reasons. And I learned from observation that dealing with a drunkard wasn't a particularly enjoyable experience. I also vaguely learned that beer is a whole lot weaker than the rice liquor. 

In grade 7, my class decided to do a beach trip, 3 days 2 nights or something like that. I didn't go on that trip. When they came back, I learned that some of my classmates decided to smuggle some Strongbow bottles into the trip, and they secretly enjoyed it once our homeroom teacher stopped paying attention to them. Now, depending on where the Strongbow was manufactured, you do get different alcohol levels. Usually, Strongbow is around 15%, but in this particular story, the Strongbow was 5%. Same as your typical beer. One dude got so wasted on Strongbow that he started crying and calling out to his mama. Jesus Christ. I'm glad I wasn't there to witness that.

At the end of grade 9, my class had a buffet. Another dude also got drunk on fricking Strongbow and he started talking to our homeroom teacher as if he was his long-time best friend. This time, I was in the buffet, and I witnessed that scene firsthanded. Bro actually put his arm over our teacher's shoulders and acted like he and teacher were brothers. Teacher got a bit upset because his student got so wasted like that. I don't think he recalled what he did to teacher once he got sober again, until we told him about it. It became one of his most embarassing moments in his life.

At the end of grade 12, my class held a barbecue night party. We splitted into 3 groups, and each group dealt with their own BBQ. My group did a rather fine job thanks to my two friends being diligent enough to grill the meat perfectly. The other two groups kinda messed up a little bit with the grilling. One group brought beers, and the girls in my group brought soju. Beer was 5% and soju was 15%. One dude in the beer group got *absolutely* wasted after half a fricking can of beer. He went into drunk denial and started reciting math theorems to prove that he wasn't drunk. But that was fun. My group was not. My group consisted of my friends and I, and the five only girls in the class plus two dudes also associated with those five girls. Those seven people drank the soju, no one of my group of friends did. Turns out, none of them could handle the soju properly. One of the girls stood in the middle of the ground, started pointing stars in the sky when the sky had nothing but clouds, then started pointing at me and asked if I was Santa Claus (girl we're in April). One of the dudes decided to go to the restroom, and I wasn't informed of that until after he already disappeared from my sight. I got concerned so I decided to fetch someone to go look after him. Only for me to realize that the other dude already took on that mission. Oh you son of a... I was busy cleaning things up, so I had to ask one of my friends to go fetch both of them. After that, we sober people had to escort the drunk ones in our group back to the room. I went into the room and the dude who was drunk on beer accused me of saying that he was drunk. Bitch I had not uttered a single word since the moment I walked into this room. Anyways, he began to continue reciting even more advanced math theorems to prove a point. Yeah, dealing with drunkards sucked royally.

When I first arrived in Canada, it was in the middle of December. I stayed at my sisters' place to enjoy Christmas and New Year with them, and to wait until I could move into campus housing. And since it was pretty much winter break for them as well, after every dinner was always liquor + snack. Yeah, my first exposure to alcohol and I decided to go straight ahead with the likes of whiskey and cognac. I thought I would do a poor job at handling the alcohol. Instead, I discovered that I could still chat to people perfectly sober after some 2 hours of heavy liquor. The other night, my sisters took me to a bar, and for the first time, I learned what a beer stein is. But other than that, I didn't get drunk even after 2 beer steins either. After that, whenever I went back to my sisters' place, I always engaged in alcoholic beverages of all kinds, like beers, cocktails and heavy liquors. Oh yeah, my sisters never got drunk either. If anything, their alcohol tolerance is at least twice as high as mine. That being said, I never really got to enjoy alcohol very much. Maybe cocktails, sometimes beer, but heavy liquor really just burns. Somehow my sisters are perfectly capable of tasting the flavors of heavy liquors. Like this one is sweet, that one is bitter, the other one is sour, etc. I'm not. For me, it's not about the flavors, it's about sending a message. Everything burns.

At some point, I had a chat with my TA colleague about drinking, and I told him that I never really enjoyed alcohol despite my high tolerance. He told me that at least for him, he enjoyed alcohol because he could in fact get drunk. Maybe that's why I don't enjoy alcohol that much. All I have is a tolerance high enough to knock out most people on my table, unless my sisters are also there.

Funny enough, that would make me a very qualified office man in Vietnam. In Vietnam, as a man, you're pretty much obliged to drink beer when your senior at your workplace asks you to drink with him. In which case, I'd do just fine. And hell, they only drink beer. Like, 5% beer. So in that case, I would definitely knock out every single soul on the table before I even had the chance to feel a bit tipsy.

Alas, no. I prefer juice.