---
title: 'About Pocky Day'
description: 'About Pocky Day'
pubDate: 'November 11 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/pocky-day.jpeg'
---

Image source: https://x.com/i/status/1988204471596540066.

Apparently, November 11 is Pocky Day. You know, to celebrate the sweet biscuit snack known as Pocky. Turns out, if something is culturally prevalent enough, it gets its own day.

Why November 11, you ask? Because 11/11. It's all sticks.

For the record, I wasn't really aware of November 11 being Pocky Day. If anything, my exposure to the weeb culture tells me that Pocky Game is a very common trope in romcoms. Like I once said in a past post, Pocky Game is either a party game of courage, or an excuse to engage in very passionate kissing. And after a bit more research (i.e. scrolling the first page of Google a bit further down), it appears that Pocky Game is pretty much a Japanese party game. And I'm living in Canada. Before that was Vietnam. No wonder why I never saw Pocky Game irl. Not sure if I want to see one though.

Over the years of collecting anime fanarts and turning Twitter into a personal archive of fanarts, I've seen a whole lot of different ways in which Pocky Game is expressed. It's either the artist drawing themselves playing Pocky Game with their waifu/husbando, or the artist drawing their OTP playing Pocky Game. Either way, I've seen *everything*. Even ones that do not qualify as safe for work. Look, it's a bloody excuse to do a French kiss. And it only goes downhill from there. So don't blame me. Though, I will say this. *Why the heck is it always chocolate pocky and never something else?* Not that I have anything against the OG, it has always been and still is goated in fact. But we could also really use some more varieties here, you know.

At some point, I came to know and love *Madoka Magica*, which was not very good for my mental health I'll admit, but if I could choose again, I would still choose *Madoka Magica*. Anyways, Kyouko-chan is always depicted with a Pocky box in her hand and a Pocky stick in her mouth. Life had its way and I now adore Kyouko-chan a whole lot, more than I care to admit. If you want to know why, read my post *About And I'm home*. So naturally, whenever I see Pocky, Kyouko-chan comes first to mind, *then* the fricking Pocky Game. But even then, I can just recall the KyouSaya doujins I've read that have Pocky Game in them, so that is still nice.

And yeah, this year's Pocky Day had tons of fanarts of Kyouko-chan with Pocky scattered everywhere on Twitter. In fact, the thumbnail of this post is one of them. 

Isn't Kyouko-chan just so adorable?