---
title: 'About Instructional Support Assistant'
description: 'About Instructional Support Assistant'
pubDate: 'October 13 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/isa.png'
---

Image source: https://uwaterloo.ca/computer-science-instructional-support-group/about/instructional-support-assistants.

This is frankly enough, the first post where I couldn't come up with a decent idea for the thumbnail. But if it works, it works.

So uh, if you know me, then you know that I'm an undergraduate student at the University of Waterloo. And like most students who study there, I'm also enrolled in what's known as the co-op program. Basically, I get to alternate between academic work and internship work every 4 months or so, and if I don't get employed, then there goes my co-op designation. But we'll talk about that another day.

Despite being a CS student, I had almost nothing to show off before I looked for my first co-op job. No decent projects, no hackathon experience, no club work, no nothing. The only thing I had were my pretty exceptional grades in CS courses. So naturally, I ended up getting the job of an Instructional Support Assisant for CS135, a first-year CS course. I shall also refer to Instructional Support Assistant as ISA from this point onwards. Really don't wanna type that again and again.

You might be wondering, "what is an ISA?". Well, aren't you glad you're reading this post.

Normally, when I have no desire to confuse people in a casual conversation, I would always just say "ISA is just a fancy term for TA". And you might already know what a TA does. They help students with lectures and assignments, they grade assignments, they grade exams, and that's about it. However, I wouldn't be writing this post if I had no desire to confuse people.

The duties of an ISA include everything that a TA does. That part is solid fact. But, whether there's more to that depends on the course you're working with, and how that course is planned out for that specific term. I do have an idea or two about what the ISAs in other courses do, but I'm not gonna pretend that I know everything, because I actually do not know everything. 

So, you're gonna read about what *my* duties were as an ISA.

I worked as an ISA for CS135 in Fall 2023. CS135 is a first-year course, and Fall is the first term for the first-years. So naturally, we had *a lot* of students in CS135. In fact, we started with roughly 1000 students that term before some 100 kids dropped the course post-midterm. It happens. It always does. Anyways, due to the sheer number of students, I wasn't the only ISA working in the course. There were 8 others, and together we made a team of 9.

Similar to what a TA would normally do, we scheduled our office hours thoughout the week so that students could come asking for help with lectures and assignments. Assignments were due on Tuesdays, so naturally we allocated more office hours on Monday and Tuesday. I'm not gonna stress just how much students love to work on their assignments at last minute, but that was the reality. So, you were in for a "treat" if you decided to sign yourself up for any Monday/Tuesday shift. And uh, I did just that. Wasn't the smartest choice to make, in hindsight. At least I got to improve my skills in explaining CS concepts by a significant amount. Came up handy in my job interviews once or twice.

We also scheduled tutorial sessions on Fridays. Students could choose to attend tutorials to get additional practice on questions that were more or less relevant to their assignments at the time. So, if you were struggling with an assignment, you could consider going to a tutorial to hopefully get some insights. We held different sessions on the same Friday so that you had the freedom to go to any tutorial session you wanted. Now, I'm gonna be honest. I don't fully know the reasons why I was hired for the ISA position, but teaching was definitively not one of them. Hell, I had to watch my peers do their sessions before I tried to mimic their styles in my own session. At some point, tutorials became more natural for me to hold, but I didn't get there until I was 2 months into the work term. Never quite got nominated for the best ISA award in that area, but I did improve you know.

We also marked exams, as a TA would. Marking exams was always a very intensive process due to the number of students and the tight deadline. And it didn't help that a lot of students wrote a lot of nonsense and either you tried to figure out if there were any partial marks to be given or you straight up gave them the L and maybe dealt with that later in remark requests. I think, at my top speed, I was marking 200 submissions on the hardest question, *every hour*. I don't know how I even managed to achieve that, but apparently I did. But all in all, marking exams as a team did have its own charm. The knowledge that you weren't suffering on your own made you feel better all of a sudden.

At this point, you might be wondering why I have yet to mention marking assignments. Because it's the cherry on the top, that's why. You see, it wasn't as simple as us nine marking the assignments. The instructors drafted the assignment, but it was the ISAs who ensured the quality of the assignments. And that meant a bunch of different things. First, we proofread the assignment, noted down our findings and suggestions, and sent our feedback to the instructor, who then made edits and finalized the assignment. Now here comes the real fun part. You see, we asked students to write code for their assignments. So the last damn thing you wanna do is to manually mark each and every submission. Instead, we have our own system, which we called autotesting, that allowed students to make online submissions and view public test results, and later, after the deadline had passed, secret test results that determines their actual grades. But, and this is a big but. CS135 uses Racket, a functional programming language, to teach basic CS concepts to students. Don't ask me why we use Racket instead of Haskell or Python, I don't know that much history either. But anyways, because Racket, we had to develop our own marking system that could handle Racket code. Or more accurately, an instructor had already set up the system, and we ISAs wrote the configs for each assignment and maintained the system as a whole. The autotesting system was more than just running code against test cases. It also allowed us to verify that a submission was valid, i.e. it didn't use disallowed functions, it didn't use disallowed techniques, it didn't use stupid strategies, etc. Abstract syntax tree is pretty fricking cool, you should look into it if you don't know what it is. Sometimes, the assignment question was perfectly accounted for by autotesting and we just simply wrote the config. Sometimes, an instructor decided to get creative and the question didn't quite work well with the autotesting, so we also had to get creative, tweak the system, and make sure it wasn't screwing anything up. Sometimes, the system failed to run properly (or even at all) and we had to figure out why it failed and how to restore it. But if the server itself failed, then we had no choice but to wait for CSCF to restore the server, since we had no privileges anyway. Either way, the instructors had no part in this, at all. So all of a sudden, I became a junior sysadmin before I even knew what the word sysadmin even meant. And mind you, I was a full-fledged Windows user before I got this job and had to deal with Linux shenanigans 24/7. That being said, I came out of that job appreciating Linux more. And then my fricking Windows laptop failed for some stupid reason and I got more incentives to do Linux and MacOS. Unfortunately, Windows is still the go-to platform for desktop gaming. Fortunately, the parallel desktop on MacOS could handle that issue pretty well, unless you're playing a AAA game.

And that wasn't the only technical system we had to manage. That lovely CS135 course website you might have seen as a first-year at Waterloo? That was on us as well. We updated all the contents on the course website, and if there was a need to change some website structures, we handled that as well. And unless the server itself goes down, in which case we pray to CSCF, if the website is down, that's on us. I came to learn about PHP the hard way. PHP my beloved (no it's not).

When I was doing the job, there was also another "fun" little project I took on. You see, we use the software known as iClicker to collect student participation. From the perspective of a normal user, it's pretty nice, for both the students answering the questions and the instructors setting the questions. From the perspective of a developer, it is **not**. No APIs whatsoever to collect the data, and no integrations whatsoever to hook our LDAP system to so that we would be spared from manually handling the students' iClicker accounts. Before my time, participation data had always been handled manually, even there were 1000 students. Crazy, I know. So, in my work term, my colleague and I took the liberty to develop a suite of Python scripts to autotmate some parts of the process and lessen the pain. Admittedly, it was spaghetti code at its finest. But it worked well enough. And if it works, it works. I discussed about the potential of our university IT department making our own internal participation platform, since they have the infrastructure, but apparently that wasn't good enough to justify spending efforts on the idea. So the dream of a naive kid still remains a dream.

You can tell from my anecdote that my job as an ISA was far from perfect. And that much, I do admit. But there was one thing that specifically stood out to me during my work term, and you might have also noticed it when reading through my anecdote. We pretty much owned our work. Unless it was something that required the expertise of the IT department, we pretty much had all the freedom to do our job however we wanted, so long as we met the deadlines. If something didn't work, we fixed it. If something didn't have an existing solution for, we created one. If something could use some improvements, we improved it. Besides the duties we were expected to perform, we had this whole sandbox that we could play around with. Personally, it was a really interesting, fantastic even, experience to me. I came into the job, expected to be given tasks and follow the schedule, and turned out I made my own tasks, my own schedule. Of course there was a general timeline we had to follow, but you get what I mean. While some of my colleagues used that freedom to do their own personal stuff, I used that freedom to make my job as interesting as it could possibly get. And I learned a lot from that. Way more than I had hoped to before taking on the job.

That being said, I get why many first-year CS students usually do not want to get an ISA job. Teaching tends to be painful, we all know that. But also, it isn't very much of tech stuff, like one you would expect working at a tech company or a tech startup. But the freedom you get as an ISA is a charm in its own right. You could argue that working at tech startups also gives you that freedom, but it ain't that simple getting into a startup for many students. And admittedly, I only took my ISA job at the time because it was literally the only offer I got, lest I wanna go unemployed right on my very first work term. But hey, I took the job out of desparation and came out liking the job a whole lot, while still fully acknowledging its flaws. Not that I'm currently working as an ISA, mind you, but I honestly don't mind going back just for the fun of it.

So, if you're looking for your first co-op job, which should be around the time of this post (and honestly it doesn't matter if you're a CS student or not), if you wanna get an interesting experience, you can consider becoming an ISA. The job pays pretty well for an academic job, and you get all the freedom you can get.

P/S: I did not get paid to write this post. You might or might not have noticed, but I'm currently on my co-op as a fullstack software developer. I just thought I wanna share some of my thoughts about my very first job. But if you do happen to be interested in an ISA position and wanna learn more details about it, feel free to get in touch with me! (through LinkedIn please).