---
title: 'About PDA'
description: 'About PDA'
pubDate: 'November 04 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/pda.webp'
---

Image source: https://dynasty-scans.com/chapters/day_of_kisses.

PDA stands for Public Display of Affection. You know, anything ranging from holding hands (lewd), hugging each other to kissing and its various degrees of style and intensity.

Where I come from, PDA is rather refrained in the eyes of society. And either it's still that way, or things have changed beyond my imagination in the 3 years I've been away from Vietnam. 

Now, to be fair, teenage romance was definitely a thing when I was a student, in both junior high and high school. But the only instance of teenage romance in my junior high years always ended up with me seeing the girl crying over the guy because he did something that hurted her. And somehow that happened on a monthly basis like it was some sort of canon event. Maybe I recall seeing them saying sweet words to each other and holding hands? But that was about it. I couldn't even care less back then. 

High school romance was chaotic. I don't know if that's supposed to be normal, but I couldn't care less. One of the guys in my class tried to hook up with 3 different girls from 3 different grades. He ended up with none. Another guy in my class tried to hook up with a girl in my class. He ended up with nothing. One of my friends actually got into a relationship with a girl who was the younger twin sister of the girl in the previous sentence. But I never saw any sort of PDA, under any circumstances. Maybe the only kind of thing that I could consider to be PDA was my friend sharing with us about his happy little moments with his girlfriend. Like buying her a small gift for Valentine's Day, or making her a small gift for International Women's Day, or singing Happy Birthday with his guitar for her birthday. It was nice seeing him happy like that, given how we all dreaded fricking high school in general and grade 11 + 12 in particular. But unfortunately, they broke up in my second year of university. Man.

After high school, I went to Canada. And that's where I got most of my PDA experiences. You know, witnessing PDA, not engaging in PDA. My friend Newbie (you might have seen him on my blog) will get another 10 bucks if I get a girlfriend or better.

My first term at Waterloo was during winter (thanks immigration services). I was much more romantic back then, and I thought to myself that winter might be a good time for PDA because it's cold as hell and holding hands or hugging each other is warm. But I never witnessed any PDA during my first winter. I talked to my older sister about that and she said I was being too dreamy, no one would do that shit out in the cold. I guess she was right.

My next term was summer, and I moved my residence to the other side of the campus (why the hell is an entire village of campus housing closed in summer?). Well, I certainly saw a lot of couples holding hands as I traversed the streets. In fact, so many that I always had to look out and dodge them because the damn sidewalk is too narrow for 3 people and they wouldn't dodge, period.

Fall came and I got my first co-op job as an ISA. It should have been normal. Instead, I discovered that I'm perfectly capable of being a ninja. One lovely day, when assignments were due and everyone in the office was in the office hour room trying their best to save the students' ass, I was left alone with a girl who worked in the same course as me, and a guy who worked in a different course. I was looking at my phone, boringly looking for some games to play, when I looked up, and saw something truly fantastic. Those two colleagues of mine, their faces next to each other, their eyes closed, their lips locked into each other, sharing a passionate kiss for over 10 seconds. While I was there, no more than 1 fricking meter from them. And I said 10 seconds because I decided to yeet myself out of the office after *watching them for 10 seconds* and help the students in office hour. Granted, saving students' ass wasn't that much of a better choice, but I'd rather have that. The hell was I supposed to do then? After that, everyone knew they were dating. Not because I had a big mouth, but because they didn't bother to hide anyway.

After that fateful work term, fate seemed to still have plans for me, as it decided to let me accidentally bump into them a couple more times in completely random ass situations. For Christ's sake I was trying to have dinner! And then just last July, I bumped into the girl again while waiting for my Tim Hortons order, and she said they were getting married by the end of this year. WAIT WHAT?! But yeah, she was my age, he was 1 year older than me, and they had plans for that already (how the frick). I'm rather confident I wouldn't get an invitation from them, because I'm no more than just a random colleague they once knew and somehow bumped into a couple of times. I want that to be true because I'm at risk of losing 100 bucks on a suit, another 100 bucks as wedding gift, and 60 bucks for a bet I made with Newbie.

This winter just now, I walked on the streets and saw a ton of couples holding hands and hugging each other in the cold ass winter. They didn't kiss simply because it was winter. Tunrs out, my first winter yielded nothing because I was on the very wrong side of student housing. Onee-chan, you lied to me.

Yesterday, I walked to a campus housing dining hall nearby to grab some dinner, because every now and then I got fed up with the food from campus plaza. I saw a couple, the boy was giving a lap pillow to a girl. The girl was acting spoiled to him, and the boy was caressing her. And the moment I walked past them, they shared a very passionate kiss. I walked away from that, laughing like a maniac because now it was somehow funny to me. Privacy means one of two things. Either you're all alone, or everyone collectively decides to ignore you.

Anyways, go read the KyouSaya doujin I posted at the beginning at this post.