---
title: 'About Yuri'
description: 'About Yuri'
pubDate: 'October 23 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/yuri.jpg'
---

Image source: https://www.pixiv.net/en/artworks/88492647.

So, yuri. It's a genre of Japanese media that focuses on love between girls. You English-speaking folks know that as lesbian. But in the same way you **do not** call *anime* cartoon, you **do not** call *yuri* lesbian either. It's its own thing. But then again, who am I to restrict you, eh?

The original word in Japanese is 百合, which literally means lily. You know, the flower. It's a relatively common feminine Japanese name, and it's also associated with beauty and purity of women in Japanese literature. Hence why the word is used for this specific genre.

Yuri is nice. It doesn't target a specific audience like BL. Everyone can enjoy yuri if they're interested in the genre. In the specific case of a young man named Di Nguyen, he enjoys yuri probably too much to be considered healthy.

And yeah, you're gonna hear how this dumb fella got into yuri and how it turned out for him over time.

It was in the middle of 9th grade. Everything sucked. Grade 9 courses sucked. Grade 9 itself sucked. Preparing for some prestigious ass math contest sucked. Preparing for grade 10 entrance exams into prestigious high schools also sucked. So naturally, I wanted to find something to distract myself from these extremely important things in my life. I decided to head to Google Play to find some games to play. I noticed a rhythm game, titled *BanG Dream*. It was a rhythm game, and it had anime girls. Perfect for a music-loving weeb like me. So naturally, I downloaded the game and played it. As expected, the soundtracks were amazing. As expected, I sucked real hard trying to play the soundtracks at high difficulties. And then, I read the stories. Well, the story started out rather normal tbh. A high school girl, with a great love for music, wanted to form a high school band to play music. Life had its ways and she befriended other girls who would eventually become her bandmates. And then, I read the bond stories. These were small side stories that went deeper into the relationships between the characters. As I read more into them, I started to realize.

"Hang on, why the heck is this relationship so wholesome? So goddamn sweet?"

The last time I saw girls interacting with each other, it was from my female classmates, and there was nothing wholesome about that. If anything, their interactions were simply more peaceful than the boys. And that was a very effing low bar. Like, rock-bottom low. Yeah, my junior high years were ass, to say the least. My relationship with classmates never quite got beyond mere classmates. 

So naturally, I got hooked up with the bond stories. It was so peaceful, so wholesome, and so so sweet. Now, at that point, I was already familiar with the concept of fanarts and fanfictions. So naturally, once I ran out of bond stories to read and waited for further updates, I searched for fanarts and fanfictions. And that, was my very introduction to the world of yuri.

And I think I lost count of just how many hours I spent collecting fanarts and reading fanfictions instead of actually giving a shit about my future. Wasn't a smart thing to do, in hindsight. But life sucked back then, okay?

At some point, I've read every single fanfiction/doujin there were for *BanG Dream*. It sounds impossible, yes, but I somehow did just that. So naturally, I went looking for more yuri materials to consume. That got me into the first yuri anime I'd ever watched, *Sakura Trick*. It was more or less on the same level as the bond stories in *BanG Dream*, two high school girls being best friend to each other and exploring the feeling of love. That lasted for exactly 10 minutes into episode 1. After that, it was nothing short of intense scenes of kissing, touching and moaning. And the two girls kissed every single time they had the chance to. That went on for the rest of episode 1 and the remaining 11 episodes. You thought that might put some people off, given the intensity. But, somehow, it only got me even more hooked up into the genre. So hooked up that I probably should have failed my exams in grade 9, but somehow I still held rank 5 of the class leaderboard. Maybe my classmates were just that deadass lazy to study.

And then, I honestly couldn't quite recall what I got myself into. Just that I digged up **every single yuri media** I could find and consumed it like it was cocaine. I stayed up to 2AM every single day just to get high on yuri materials. The only thing that I could vividly recall getting high on was *Doki Doki Literature Club*. I was somehow scared shitless, haunted perpetually, and hooked up with the contents at the same time.

At some point, I had to take my entrance exams. Well, that didn't stop me from getting high on yuri, but I still had to control myself unless I wanna flop the exams completely by sleeping on the exam desk. Somehow, I managed to get my ass enrolled into one of the most prestigious high schools in the country. Don't ask me how I did it, I don't even know how myself.

And then, high school sucked. Not because of classmates, they were fine (not really, but that's a story for another day). But because I got my ass enrolled into one of the most prestigious high schools in the country. Performance expectation on every course was sky high. It didn't take long before I felt completely exhausted trying to keep up with the top. So, I took the L, accepted the middle ground, and spent my free time getting high on more yuri.

At some point during grade 11, when literally everyone was suffering due to some specific courses, I had my very first group of friends! It started out as a group of classmates trying to save each other's ass, but eventually we became a close group of friends that would talk just about anything in the world. One guy introduced us to a game series called *Touhou Project*, a bullet-hell game series well-known for its insane difficulty and extremely banger soundtracks. While most of us turned away because the game was too damn hard, I sticked around because the music hooked me up. Eventually, the music led me to the [wiki](https://en.touhouwiki.net/wiki/Touhou_Wiki). And there began my journey into a rabbit hole far deeper than the Mariana Trench. At first, the massive world building, with its alluring mysteries and mythical tales, had me ditching my precious homework time to read them lores, which ended up making me rushing my homeworks at last minute. Then, I read about the characters. Then, the little trivia section of each character informed me that there were a lot of pairings. Then, I headed straight to [a certain doujin site](https://dynasty-scans.com/) to read them doujins. Then I discovered that the amount of yuri materials was even more than the previous 2 years combined. That happens when you have yuri in such an interesting world. Then uh, I completely forgot that I even had a grade 11 to pay attention to. You better believe me word for word when I say I have read every single piece of literature, whether fanmade or official, about *Touhou Project*. This whole thing went on for the entirety of the rest of my high school years. Don't worry, I still graduated high school with flying grades. How did you think I got into Waterloo then?

So, I got into Waterloo, one of the most prestigious university in Canada. And my first term went by pretty normal, if not a bit mundane. Then, near the end of that term, as my friends and I were looking for animes to watch together, one of them suggested *Puella Magi Madoka Magica*, a highly-rated anime series about magical girls that was known to be quite distinctive in its dark tone. We were bored because we ran out of good animes to watch, so we thought "yeah sure why not try it?". Episode 1 and 2 were all wholesome and slice of life. Then episode 3 ditched all of that and threw the truth about magical girls into our face. And it only went downhill from that point. First watchthrough of the series ended with us baffling because none of us understood what the F just happened in the last 12 episodes. After that, my friends moved on. Unfortunately, the haunting story and the even more haunting soundtracks effectively chained me. I decided to watch the series again, this time on my own. I decided to read the wiki to understand every detail in every episode. I decided to listen to [all the soundtracks](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCS94hRoqXbRYT5pZivlG49-AxZ9rYSLk) again on the official YouTube channel. After that, I began to embrace the story of hope, despair and love. Though some part in me still wished for a happier ending. And then, I learned about the movies. Now, movie 1 and 2 were just the original 12 episodes upgraded. But movie 3, *Rebellion*, was the sequel to the 12 episodes. Again, I watched the movie once, I watched the movie again, I read the wiki, I listened to the soundtrack. And **then**, I went to a certain doujin site again and read every single *Madoka Magica* doujin. After that, I fully embraced the story of hope, despair and love. If you haven't realized already, the two girls in the thumbnail of this post are Sakura Kyouko and Miki Sayaka from the series. And if you haven't realized already, I wrote several blog posts where I got high on *Madoka Magica*.

Fast forward to 2025, and I'm still neck deep in *Madoka Magica* and *Touhou Project*. That much hasn't changed. But I also slowly came to realize why I had always been so hooked up with the genre of yuri. Like, yuri didn't start out with me thinking "maybe I'll try this genre". It just came to me one day and my subconsciousness somehow insta-locked onto it. And I've never really known the reason. But recently, I have come to realize some parts of it.

You see, yuri works really well for me because at its core, yuri is about two people sharing their insecurities with one another, and getting close to one another, mostly emotionally, sometimes physically. It's a lot more natural for girls to do that. And it's a lot more natural to show that with girls. No offense, but that's the harsh reality. And yeah, I had a whole lot of insecurities that I never really knew how to share or who to share with. So for me, the yuri genre was what I wanted in my life. It was just that ideal of a genre. And hey, I like seeing people hugging each other, embracing each other, cuddling with each other, and be themselves with each other. Girls tend to do that, boys don't. And I'm a boy. Which you know, isn't anything bad and all. But being able to just be yourself, to just show your love to those you care about, to just tell them "I love you" or "You're my family" as a simple fact, is a really really nice feeling.

So yeah, yuri does really have a special place in my heart. Not all yuri mangas/animes are like that, but you know, if it's good, then it's really really good.

Ah man, I really want my own family.